I'll admit something straight off the
bat. Even I feel overwhelmed right now
and it's literally my job to stay on top
of all the newest AI tools and releases.
I struggle to keep up. So, if you're sat
at home watching this, then I can only
imagine it's 10 times worse trying to
keep up with all of this so
overwhelming. Now, in my last video, I
showed you how to migrate from chat GPT
to Claude. But if you're just using
Claude as a chat GPT replacement and
you're missing out on some of the
biggest features, the biggest release
recently has to be Claude Co-work. And I
want to walk you through it step by
step, super simple, so you can
understand it, too. How to install it,
how to start using it for yourself. Even
if you feel like you're a complete AI
newbie, let me show you every single
step. I'll put a step-by-step guide and
instructions, a link in the description
below that you can get inside what I
call my AI recipe vault. This has got
links to pages that have all sorts of
different processes in here from
step-by-step prompts to these setup and
introduction guides to platforms like
Co-work. Now, just a quick word on how
to get access. If you want to use Claude
Co-work and all of the features, then
you will need a pro account, but that's
$17 a month here. It's so cheap for the
amount of power you're going to get
here. Trust me on this one. Now, once
you've got your Pro account, if you
don't have one already, you can log into
Claude, you're going to see a screen
like this, your main chat window. But we
need to actually download the desktop
app. So, you can go to the bottom left
of your screen and hit the download
button here. This is going to bring you
to the page where you can download
Claude desktop. It might actually say
co-work, but this is actually the full
desktop suite suite for Claude. You can
get it for download for Mac OS and I
believe they've download they've offered
it for Windows now as well if you're a
Windows user. So you can go ahead and
download and install the Claude desktop
app. Once you've downloaded it and
logged in, you're going to be met with a
screen like this. Very similar to
Claude. You've got the exact same chat
window. You've got your sidebar on the
left here, your projects, your
artifacts. So you can use Claude
normally from your desktop. You also get
the advantage of some voice functions.
But the real winner comes in the top
here where you can see it says co-work
and code. So you can access this co-work
feature that we're going to be talking
about today as you can see here. And you
can go even deeper into clawed code, but
that's a whole another level deeper.
We're going to stick in co-work for this
window. So what is clawed co-work? Why
is it so good? Why is it so different?
Well, it actually uses the same
architecture and design as clawed code.
That's what underpins it. But if you
tell someone who's not a developer to
use clawed code, they're like, I don't
really want to code anything. But one of
the big upshots of clawed code is people
aren't actually using it to code apps so
much as using it to control and run
tasks on their computer. And co-work
makes it more accessible for anyone to
start doing this. So if a normal LLM
like the normal clawed chat function is
the brain co-worker the hands that allow
it to actually start reaching inside
your computer controlling your computer
and execute tasks for you autonomously.
So as you can see here with co-work you
can tell it what you want it to do step
away and come back to finished work
formatted documents organized files on
your computer research and much much
more. And this is because it has the
capability to access files directly on
your computer, which I'll show you
shortly and how to do that safely. Sub
aent agent coordination, so it can break
complex work and complex tasks into
smaller tasks and hand those off to
different independent agents. It can
produce your professional outputs. So
deliver Excel spreadsheets, documents,
formulas, presentations, whatever you
want, whatever you can imagine. And it
can work on longunning tasks. Plus, it
can go steps further and actually start
using your web browser to browse the web
for you. Now, you should also be aware
when you start using this that the
heavier the task, the more you're doing.
You are going to start using up your
clawed tokens and your usage allowance.
So, be careful how much you use it if
you don't want to absolutely burn
through all your credits for that
session and wait for them to reset in a
few hours. But that's enough of the
theory. Let's jump into how this works.
So this is the main co-work dashboard.
You'll see straight away that it is a
research preview. Like it is still
getting better and improving. So this is
the worst version of co-work you'll ever
use and it's still insane. You've got a
little suggestions tab to start using
here which might give you some ideas of
some of the tasks you can start using.
But before we actually run a task, we
need to dedicate some area of our
computer that it can start working from.
It needs some folders to work in. Now,
depending on the task, you want to give
it a specific folder to work in. So, we
could go ahead and choose a folder. Now,
you could actually create a new folder
and say we just want to be co-work. We
could say this is our main folder that
co-works always going to work in. It's
never going to be able to touch any
other folders on our computer. That
means you can be sort of secure in the
knowledge that it's not going to go
doing stuff around your computer,
deleting files or reorganizing stuff
that you don't want touched. or you can
go ahead and just pick the folder that
you actually want to do some work in.
For this first task I want to show you,
I actually want to go into my documents
and my screenshots. I want to give it
access to all the screenshots on my
computer. And when I do that, I just
have to confirm. I say allow Claude to
change files in my screenshots. So,
basically, I'm giving it access to this
screenshot folder to actually start
working in. And this is just a very
simple demo to get you started on
showing you how it sort of works with
your folders. So, whatever it is you're
trying to do, pick the folder or
dedicate a folder on your computer that
co-work allowing it to work in. Then, we
can also select our model here in the
right hand side. Just like in the normal
chat window, we can turn on and off
extended thinking. We can move up to the
newest model, Opus 4.6 for the most
powerful work. Of course, that's going
to use more credit, so be careful of
which one you're using. We'll just stick
with Sonet 4.5 for this example. And
then, actually, we've already got an
example task in here that says,
"Organize my screenshots." But you can
prompt it as well. Go through my
screenshots, rename them so it's obvious
what they are, and then place them in a
folder structure that makes them easier
for me to find in the future. So, we're
not doing any crazy prompting here.
We're just giving clear instructions and
goals of what we want to achieve. When
we run a task, you'll then see this pop
out on the right hand side here. It's
going to ask, actually, would you like
to give access to files in your
documents folder? Yes, I do, because
that's where we're doing some work. And
you'll see Claude starts to help me
organize my screenshots with descriptive
names and a logical folder structure.
>> [snorts]
>> Now you'll also see the progress of a
task on the right hand side. So it's
actually scanning and cataloging
everything before then executing the
rest of the task here. And while we wait
for that to run, you'll see this is
actually a task that I did in my
downloads folder as well. Got it to go
through all of my downloads and just
file everything away neatly and select
stuff to review for deletion, any
duplicates, anything not relevant and
just file everything away really nicely,
which is a job that like everyone puts
off but is super easy to do with
something like co-work. These are some
of the basic features that you can start
using them with. Once you get
comfortable with these, then you can
really start to ramp it up. And we'll
get on to those next. And this is crazy.
I'm going to say in less than 4 minutes,
it's completed the task. Think how long
this would take a human to do. You'd end
up just deleting them or ignoring them.
You'd have to go through, open each one,
rightclick, rename, then work out where
you want to put them in different
folders. Here, now we've got everything
renamed in different folders ready to
go. So, if we open up my screenshots
folder now, documents here, go into
screenshots. Look, everything's filed
away neatly in different folders. And
then within those folders, we've got
everything named. So, let's say sports
here, England, cricket match details.
Some some screenshots I was taking of
some cricket schools the other day.
We've got travel. We got some
screenshots of some boarding passes
named. Everything's just neat and tidy
and ready to go. It's so cool. So,
that's the easiest way to start using
Cowwork, getting it to actually control
the files on your computer and do a
little bit of housekeeping, some
reorganization. But, let's take things
up a notch. Let's go back and start a
new chat window here. And you'll see on
the left hand side, you'll get all of
your chats and tasks that you've been
running on the left hand side as well.
But, we're going to open up a new task.
And I'm going to show you how you can
actually step by step create files with
Claude Co-work as well. So, watch this
next bit. You'll get more comfortable
using it. and get this next feature
layered on. So, I'm going to open and
again remember we need to give it access
to the right folder structure that we
want to use. So, I'm going to give it
access to this invoice processor agent.
So, I did that by choosing a different
folder, selecting the folder that I
wanted to give access to. We could
actually go deeper, but you can go as
deep or as light as you want. I like to
be quite specific to make sure I'm
working in that controlled environment,
but essentially we're building a an
invoice processing agent here. So, it's
got access to this folder of several
messy invoices. This could be hundreds
long. This is only about six or seven
that we've got that are just
misorganized. They're not really doing
much. I know I need to actually do some
administration and tidy them up and make
sure they're all reconciled. So, what
I'm asking Claude Co-work here to do is
again go through these files. We're
going to get them renamed. We're going
to get them put into correct folders.
But then I also want it to generate a
spreadsheet or a CSV file to give me a
clean overview of this whole task and
all of my invoices. Now what it's going
to do next, it's going to ask us some
questions cuz this is multiple steps
here with some decisions that need to be
made. So it wants to know what naming
file structure should we use for
invoices. So I can say something else. I
can give it a custom format or it's
going to give me some pretty obvious
options. So let's say I'd like it with
the date, the vendor name, and the
amount for the invoice. Then it's going
to ask us what information the
spreadsheet should include. So kind of
just want to say like give me
everything. I want a complete overview
of all this and auto calculated totals
and summary and how should I organize
the monthly folders by invoice date, by
due date, by received. We're just going
to go by invoice date. So the date the
invoice was sent. So it is very much
like having your own personal assistant.
Here's the task I want you to do. They
might have a few questions. Give them
the answers and hopefully in a few
minutes it will come back with the work
all done for you. And again, in less
than 5 minutes, everything's done and
ready to go. We've got our monthly
folders. We've even got totals of
invoices there. And it's created our
spreadsheet invoice tracker for us,
which we can open just in Claude Co-work
here just to see how it works. Or
actually go and open it in our local
spreadsheet app, whether that's Excel,
we could upload it to Google Sheets,
however you want to view these. And
you'll see we've got our outputed file
here. Super neat. Exactly what we
wanted. We've got all of our vendors,
invoice numbers, names, payment status
on there, as well as monthly breakdowns.
And we could actually use this. We could
keep this file in our invoicing area and
get Claude to update it every time we
run this process with it. Plus, you'll
see our invoice processor agent file
here now has invoices with everything
dated in the right area. We've got our
all invoices. We've got our original
invoice, but now they're filed away,
too, and renamed by the date, the
client, and the actual amount owed for
this selection of invoices. Super cool.
And another admin task chalked off in
just a few minutes. So, we're really
getting through some stuff even with
this basic setup at the moment. So,
that's amazing. We can organize and we
can create files. But one of the real
secret powers of co-work is it has the
ability to go further and actually
browse the web. Now, to make this work,
you need to add some more add-ons for
your Google Chrome. Specifically, you
need to give it access to something
called the Claude in Chrome add-on in
the Chrome web store. And I'll put all
the links below for you to get all of
this stuff. You can get the Claude in
Chrome add-on. Add that in, and it's
going to allow Claude the ability to
browse the web. You can use this
manually in the right hand bar here. If
you open the extension, you can actually
instruct Claude to summarize and browse
the web. But we actually want this to
run as a task through co-work. So I'll
show you how to activate that in co-work
and how it works. And then we'll go a
step further and combine it with all the
skills and information we've been
learning so far. So again, I'm just
going to keep things really simple with
our prompting and say, can you use
Chrome to go to my YouTube studio, write
a report on the current performance of
my YouTube channel? So we'll run that
task. You know, for me, as someone who's
a marketing background in my agency
days, would have been awesome to be able
to just tell co-work to go and check out
the files on my computer, check out
Google Search Console, Google Analytics,
here's the structure I like, my SEO
reports, and just do the reporting for
me rather than me have to pick through
all the data and try and figure it out
and write this stuff myself would have
saved me hours, dozens of hours every
month. Now, what you're going to see is
it's going to open Google Chrome here
and start using that clawed browsing
connection to actually browse the web.
So, it's hopefully going to go to my
YouTube Studio here. Actually, it hasn't
quite got there yet because at times you
might need to allow it to run certain
tasks. So, it actually wants me, it's
actually asking me allow Claude to
browse the web on YouTube Studio. We can
say allow for this website. We can allow
for this time or we can just hit allow
all the time. So, we're just going to
allow for this website so it can always
go and browse that website without
asking again. So, it does have
permissions built in there to stop it
just going wild. You can see uh here we
go. It's navigated to the YouTube Studio
dashboard on Claude Chrome here on
Google Chrome I should say. You'll see
that when Claude is actually using a web
tab on your browser, it'll be
highlighted in orange here to say, "Hey,
this tab is included and I'm allowed to
browse on here." You see it going
through my YouTube studio to actually
start collecting this data for our
report. And then if you check back in
Claude Co-work, you see on the right
hand side here context the connectors
it's using clawed in Chrome. So
everything's working perfectly as we
wanted it. It's capturing the analysis
before it actually compiles it into a
professional report. While that runs,
I'll also show you a few other bits
here. So in the chat window, you also
have this plus button on the bottom
left. If you click that, it's going to
open the ability to add files and
photos. You've also got other connectors
you can build in here. So, you can see
here you can connect it to your Gmail,
your Google Drive. I've got Excalor,
I've got notion. So, for example, the
way we could add even more power is
we've got our YouTube studio report
document that it's created for us here.
I could also connect Claude to my notion
and get it to look at my YouTube ideas,
big brain dump area I have and actually
start looking at what ideas are likely
to succeed based on my YouTube studio
performance and actually probably start
building out a content calendar, start
writing scripts, go super deep. Once you
start understanding the power of this
stuff, you can start going deeper and
deeper on your processes. So connectors
in here are going to allow you to use
API or MCP access direct into some other
apps rather than waiting for co-work to
actually browse the web to actually find
this information. And you can hit add
plugins. Now plugins basically allow you
to add custom skills. If you've used the
normal area of Claude and you use Claude
skills, then this is a very similar
thing. If you haven't and you don't know
what I'm talking about with Claude
skills, again, I'll put a video link
underneath introducing you to Claude
skills as well. But by default, there's
some extra skills which are basically
processes, expertise, ways of working
that are built into Anthropic here. So,
you can have a sales skill to help you
prep for calls, manage your pipeline,
write personalized messaging,
productivity skill, a marketing skill
that are all designed for these unique
use cases. You can also add skills,
upload them if you're starting to find
them or people are giving them to you or
you've been creating them. A lot of
people are giving these away as lead
magnets now where you can buy packs of
skills to use or you can add
marketplaces from GitHub by finding the
repo. If you know how to use GitHub, you
find that link, you add it in there, and
it's going to give you access to all
those skills that are saved on GitHub.
For example, this one's called Awesome
Claude Skills. I got the link from
GitHub, put it into here, and it's given
me access to all of these insane skills,
like a hundred awesome Claude skills to
start using. So, I can hit like tailored
r generator. If you're job hunting, we
can install tailored r generator. Hit
manage, and you'll see that this is now
a plugin or a skill that's available to
use on Claude Co-work. We can even
customize it. The other thing you can do
from this little plus button is hit
include project. So in normal claude you
have in the sort of normal chat area you
have something called projects. These
projects allow you to work with custom
knowledge bases. Again I'll put a link
in the description if you want to find
out about claude projects too. But you
can actually use those in Claude co-work
as well by clicking include projects.
Claude Co-work is actually going to
download and save these files for your
computer for you to actually use and
work with within co-work. Again, I I I'd
say start with the basics, learn the
basics of Claude, and then you can start
layering on these more complex and added
features as you get more comfortable in
all of this architecture. So, there's so
much you can do in Claude. I think for a
lot of people, the problem is like
there's too much choice. I don't know
where to begin. The easiest places are
file and document management, research
and analysis, document creation from
that management and research, and data
and analysis. Those are the easiest ways
to get started. If you've got your own
business, you've probably got some great
ideas that are coming to the front of
your mind already. And just a word of
warning, it does have some limitations
because it is still quite new. So, it
doesn't have memory across sessions. So,
like chat GPT and normal Claude, they
can remember what you've been working on
across different chats. They have
memory. Co-work doesn't have inbuilt
memory. You'd have to set that up
manually yourself within your file
structure, keeping files and folders of
what you've been working on. You can't
share your chats to other users easily.
It only works on your desktop. So, you
have to download that desktop app and
you need to rem retain session
persistence. That means the desktop app
must be open for your session to
continue. If you close the app, the task
is going to stop. So, it will use your
computer power while you're running
these tasks. You can't stop it from
doing that. I'll put a step-by-step
guide and instructions, a link in the
description below that you can get
inside what I call my AI recipe vault.
This has got links to pages that have
all sorts of different processes in
here, from step-by-step prompts to these
setup and introduction guides to
platforms like Co-work.